So hey again blog, its been a minute and i've been very absent. But not in my chess presence ! I've played a lot and been very passionate about my recent games for better or worse jaja. Random off note, today i took some five minutes to meditate and have been way more mindful about my emotions and improving my responses to certain uncomfortable situations that would've triggered a worse response in me which is a great thing i have to continue. I love how that makes me feel. Droning around on my phone doesnt give me a whole lot of satisfaction and just makes my brain tired. I have to continue to take care of myself in the simplest details, that brings an almost instant mood brightener, just like when cats dont groom themselves they become gloom. The same applies to us obviously, and i have to take those things seriously. These short, seamingly meaningless wins add up and can give you great momentum to achieve your other bigger goals. Good food, exercise and meditation contribute to a better overall mental and physical wellbeing which will improve my chess elo, my focus and my life. Keep on getting focused and one day at a time I'm gonna get better. TLDR do what you gotta do and you'll keep improving, you know what you have to do and you have the time. Find it within yourself and dont defeat yourself. Ok enough of that back to our un-regularly scheduled programming. I thought reaching 1000 would be a breeze but i started playing just to reach the number and have been playing very inconsistently. Off the top, what I think I was doing differently is being mentally energized when i play chess. I also play to avoid my opponent improving their position and do slow constant improvements to better my position, no matter if they're the best or worst atm. I play confidently based on what I know at the moment and manage my time in that manner. I always play aggresively and look to mate my opponent when i can avoiding long endgames with no queens since I'm not studying the endgames as of recently. Focusing on this macro level play with an energized brain leads to this slow and steady progression. Every day i do puzzles to improve my pattern recognition and can execute winning tactics to get wins. Additional pointers i can use are, chess tempo to improve my tactics, play a couple of minutes of coordinates so that i can better visualize the board and play mentally. Think about chess positions and openings. 