---
title: Chess
date: "2025-06-05T23:46:37.121Z"
description: "Chess is cool"
---

Life's gotten a bit slow and summer begins, there's so much cool stuff to see in my little island of puerto rico. But I've been finding joy in winning my chess matches, slowly improving my position and finding nice plays to turn the tide of battle. Returned to watching a wonderful resource that was recommended to me by one of my old chess buddies called "La pasion por el ajedrez", which is presented by gary kasparov. So far I'm in episode four and planning to watch at least one episode every day to continue to improve my chess skills. Its a wonderful presentation of fundamental and advanced concepts with real tournament matches being showcased and various examples to help you deeply learn and understand the theory and reasons behind each concept. In order to continue to refine my skills i have to set clear goals to continue to see that nice, dopamine filling, juicy nutritious progress that i want. So my plan is to continue to post daily journal entries with the information that i learn from each episode and play some matches after having watched the episodes. My long term goal is to reach 1000 elo in chess.com by the end of this month, I'm sure I'll get it done in way less if i keep my focus. There's an interesting study on today's 4th episode about pieces that block pawns from advancing also called "sentinelas" in spanish. A good sentinela is not able to be pressured by pawns and can also move freely on the attack, while a bad sentinela is purely a defensive one. It also showcased one of Boby Fischer's immortal tournament matches to win the US Championship in 1959 against an also prodigal opponent called Samuel Reshevsky. This young fella Boby just had 16 years old at the time of this match and was already competing with professional caliber chess players. Boby had the white pieces and Reshevsky played the Sicilian defense with the advanced fianchetto variation, where if you dont know the fianchetto term, it means that the black pieces want to place their bishop in g7 in order to attack the center of the board and gain control of the a1 to h8, big diagonal. Eventually, black attacks white's bishop that was placed on the c4 square, and then to b3 in order to pressure black's king, this causes white to disrupt blacks position by pushing the e4 pawn to e5 and forcing the knight on f6 to retreat since if the black knight captures white's bishop, pawn takes f6, followed by knight takes a1, followed by pawn takes g7 which would threaten blacks rook and knight at the same time. After this retreat, Fischer takes on f7, sacrificing the bishop in order the remove the defender of the e6 square to which black responds by capturing with the rook. Fischer then attacks blacks queen on its starting square with knight to e6, covering the d8 square and if black takes with the d pawn to e6, queen takes queen and she's still lost. Its a hell of a lot of planning and dedication that had to go to discover such a nice tactic and had to feel so damn insane to pull off in a championship match that i cant imagine how this dude at 16 had to feel, probably kept his cool but inside had to feel so damn excited. 