---
title: More chess updates
date: "2025-06-06T23:46:37.121Z"
description: "i didnt change this description initially "
---

This episode had a closed match turn dynamic at the end with an entrance of a rook into a position which then lead to the knight infiltrating and winning in a match that featured the england opening of white going c4 into e5 and then developing the knight to c3, knight to f6 and g3 to fianchetto the white bishop. The match focused around the control of the center d4 and d5 squares but kasparov had more pieces controlling the center and found the eventual win in a lengthy middlegame. The episode also goes to show that certain endgames might have certain tricks and that you need to calculate a bit in order to not get surprised in them such as in a king and queen vs king and pawn about to promote in the rook file. The theme of the episode was having a plan, any plan, is better than having no plan at all. There was another example in which we see the strenght of a knight in a closed off position shine against a lone bishop who has all his white squares covered by his own pawns, creating a rather conflicted bishop and that even sacrificing the knight can lead to some victories in these knight against bishop endgames. After posting my latest blog i played a match where my opponent played the england as white and i had the black pieces (Im looking at the match history rn). I eventually took the pawn on c4 with my bishop that i developed to e6 but realized that it was a mistake since i could have been checked and forked by the queen on a4. The lesson here is to be aware of forcing checks before making relevant takes, always look at forcing moves especially if me or my opponent have our kings still in the middle. Eventually he traded most of his pieces including our queens in order to have an endgame where i had two double pawns on the c and f files. Eventually i lost a winning endgame where my opponent blundered his rook but since i was in time pressure i couldn't find the winning ideas. The lesson here is to be aware of the clock, and protect my pieces while improving my position. If i'm gonna lose i'd rather it be through strategic means and not just blundering pieces. Gonna play a match now peace!